# Pro-Hacker
#Cuyahoga Community College - Western Campus Information Technology Center of Excellence IT1025-Concepts for Programmers CRN:  81429 - Fall 2023    FACULTY INFORMATION Faculty:  Teri Harrison Office:   N/A – Adjunct Email:   teri.harrison@tri-c.edu When you send an email, please include the course name and CRN number in the subject line and include the specific question you want addressed. Also, per college policy, all emails must be sent from your college email.  Office Hours: By request – send email with date/time request and details of questions  COURSE INFORMATION Course Title:  IT1025 Concepts for Programmers CRN:  #81429 Modality:  Hybrid In person meetings Mondays @ 6:00 PM, Western Campus STEM Center, Room D205 Credit Hours:  2 Lecture 2 Lab  3 Total   COURSE DESCRIPTION  Designed for students pursuing careers in programming, networking, database, and comprehensive Information Technology disciplines. Builds a foundation in these concepts through hands-on practice with a variety of programming languages and leading industry tools.  LEARNING OUTCOMES  Upon satisfactory completion of IT 1025 - Information Technology Concepts for Programmers, the student should be able to perform the outcomes and supporting objectives listed in the official course outline which can be found at the following site https://forms.tric.edu/OfficialCourseOutlines/Information%20Technology/IT-1025.pdf   ACADEMIC CREDIT STATEMENT  IT1025 is a 3-credit hour course, therefore, in a full-term course, the required course load is nine (9) hours per week for a total of 144 hours in a semester. This is an 8-week course; therefore, the required course load would equate to approximately 18 hours per week. Make sure you can prioritize your time accordingly. Proper planning, prioritization and dedication will enhance your success in this course.  TEXTBOOK AND REQUIRED MATERIALS  No Textbook: There is no required textbook for this course. We will utilize free resources assimilated by faculty for course requirements.  Free online text can be found at this link: https://opentextbook.site/informationsystems2019/frontmatter/title-page-information-systems-introduction/  GRADING SCALE  Evaluation Method Point Value Modules (24 @ 20 points each) 480 Discussion Boards (8 @ 20 points each) 12 points for original post and 8 points for a reply to a classmate – you need to make an original post and reply for each lesson. 160 Resume 20 TOTAL 660  Grade Scale A 90-100% B 80-89% C 70-79% D 60-69% F Under 60%  CLASS POLICIES  Late work: Late lab assignments will result in a 10% deduction for each day up to 3 days late. After this point labs will not be accepted due to our short semester. **If you have significant extenuating circumstances, please email me for consideration of an additional extension. Include the date that you intend to turn in your late work. ** Discussions cannot be submitted late since students need time to reply to your post.  Course Expectations: This is a hybrid learning course, wherein students attend an in-person session once each week and use a variety of online resources to master the learning objectives. Several of the sites will require account creation where you will use your Tri-C email address. Every attempt has been made to limit the need for such account creation however, in several cases it is necessary to provide essential industry-level experience in the topics. This course requires independent learning, strong selfdiscipline, and effective time-management skills.  Course Correspondence: All communication in this course is to be made via your Tri-C email account (Tri-C email can be accessed via My Tri-C Space). Make sure to check your email at least once per day to ensure you are receiving all information sent out in the course. Official announcements and communication will be made via email and Blackboard Announcements. During the week I will respond to your emails within 24 hours or less (typically much less). Be sure to be as specific as possible and send screen shots and/or samples of the issue so that I can respond as thoroughly as possible making the best use of your time.    REQUIRED INSTITUTIONAL POLICIES  Click on the following link to view all the institutional policies such as the Accessibility Statement, Concealed Carry, Attendance Tracking, Academic Credit Statement, and Learning Outcomes Statement: https://www.tri-c.edu/student-resources/curriculum/documents/syllabus-part-b.pdf   **All Information contained in this syllabus is subject to change with a written notice. **  COURSE CALENDAR  Tri-C Term Calendar: https://www.tri-c.edu/academic-calendar/Fall-2023/Fall-2023-Session-A.html  Lesson Dates Topic Due Dates 1 8/28-9/3 Mod. 1: Welcome & Introduction to Info. Systems Mod. 2: Screen capture & working with files Mod. 3: Hardware Disc. 1, Modules 1-3 Sun. 9/3 @ 11:55pm 2 9/5-9/10 Mod. 4: Software Mod. 5: Careers in Computing Mod. 6: GitHub Version Control Software Disc. 2, Modules 4-6 Sun. 9/10 @ 11:55pm 3 9/11-9/17 Mod. 7: Data Representation Mod. 8: Graphics Mod. 9: Introduction to Programming Logic Disc. 3, Modules 7-9 Sun. 9/17 @ 11:55pm 4 9/18-9/24 Mod. 10: Introduction to Python Mod. 11: Programming Languages & Processes Mod. 12: Object-Oriented Programming Disc. 4, Modules 10-12 Sun. 9/24 @ 11:55pm 5 9/25-10/1 Mod. 13: Networking & Communications Mod. 14: Network Protocols  Mod. 15: Cybersecurity Disc. 5, Modules 13-15 Sun. 10/1 @ 11:55pm 6 10/2-10/8 Mod. 16: Encryption Mod. 17: Data & Databases Mod. 18: Big Data Tools Disc. 6, Modules 16-18 Sun. 10/8 @ 11:55pm 7 10/9-10/15 Mod. 19: Internet Architecture Mod. 20: Introduction to HTML Mod. 21: Business Processes & Cloud Computing Disc. 7, Modules 19-21 Sun. 10/15 @ 11:55pm 8 10/16-10/22 Mod. 22: Ethical and Legal implications of Information Systems Mod. 23: Globalization and the Digital Divide Mod. 24: Resume Submission Disc. 8, Modules 22-24 Sun. 10/22 @ 11:55pm  *The course calendar is tentative and is subject to change with written notice.*  
